---
title: Installation
description: Get started with GUILT.
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-download
---

::callout{icon="i-lucide-scroll-text" color="neutral" to="https://github.com/GeorgeRoe/guilt"}
Always review scripts from the internet before running them on your machine.
You can view the source code for the installation scripts on GitHub.
::

## Quick Start

::tip
This is the recommended installation method for most users.
::

You can install GUILT with the following steps:

::steps{level=4}
#### Download and run the installation script

```bash [Terminal]
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GeorgeRoe/guilt/main/install-release.sh | sh
```

#### Add to `PATH`

The installation script installs GUILT to `~/.local/bin/guilt`. You need to ensure that the `~/.local/bin` directory is in your `PATH` environment variable.

You can do this by adding the following line to your **Run Commands** file (`~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`):

```bash [Terminal]
export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
```

#### Verify installation

You can check that GUILT has been installed successfully by running:

```bash [Terminal]
guilt --version
```
::

::collapsible{name="More about the Quick Start installation script"}
The quick start script does the following:

1. Creates the directory `~/.local/bin` if it does not already exist.
2. Detects which architecture your system is using (x86_64 or arm64).
3. Checks the latest release of GUILT on GitHub and downloads the appropriate binary for your architecture.
4. Ensures the binary is executable.
::

## Compilation Installation Script

If you would prefer to compile GUILT from source, you can do so by following the steps below.

You can install GUILT with the following steps:

::steps{level=4}
#### Ensure you have Cargo installed

To compile GUILT from source, you need to have [Cargo](https://rustup.rs/) installed on your system. You can check if you have Cargo installed by running the following command:

```bash [Terminal]
cargo version
```

#### Download and run the compilation/installation script

```bash [Terminal]
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GeorgeRoe/guilt/main/install-compile.sh | sh
```

#### Add to `PATH`

The installation script installs GUILT to `~/.local/bin/guilt`. You need to ensure that the `~/.local/bin` directory is in your `PATH` environment variable.

You can do this by adding the following line to your **Run Commands** file (`~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`):

```bash [Terminal]
export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
```

#### Verify installation

You can check that GUILT has been installed successfully by running:

```bash [Terminal]
guilt --version
```
::

::collapsible{name="More about the Compilation installation script"}
This script will do the following:

1. Checks that you have [Cargo](https://rustup.rs/) installed.
2. Creates a temporary directory for the build process using `mktemp`.
3. Clones the GUILT repository from GitHub into the temporary directory.
4. Uses Cargo to build the GUILT binary in release mode.
5. Moves the compiled binary to `~/.local/bin/guilt` and ensures it is executable.
::